We have already set up our project for Java Servlet.
Now we will learn what is Java Servlet.
But before that I will summarize the first part, what we learned first.
So in IDE, what I did, I just created Java.
We project with End and we just build that project using the last server.
So that's it.
Setup is done.
Now what we can do, we will learn about some Java servlet.
So what we can say servlet is a Java technology to create web application.
So so servlet in Java are basically dedicated for creating web application.
So difference between web page or web application, I will tell you in the folder, but in short, I
can tell you web application is for performing a single task like we are now.
Our task is over creating event registration portal.
So this is the web application web pages for marketing and everything about that particular company,
university or anything organization.
But web application is particular for that purpose.
So servlet is an API.
So servlet is known as API and it is using the API basically so it can use to create APIs to provide
many interfaces, classes including documentation and everything.
So, so are very powerful to create API.
So if you know what is API, API is basically application programming interface.
So if you want to create some interface, application programming will be used there.
So similarly, like that API gives you the.
Application interface with interfaces, classes and documentation, everything.
So servlet will consist two things interfaces and classes.
But while we're doing that, you will understand what is the difference between that interfaces and
classes.
Both are looking similar, but both are very different concepts.
So let us see first what is servlet?
In interfaces.
So is an interface that must be implemented by creating any servlet.
So as the name suggests, interface it should.
So some application or interface.
Also.
The class also is a class that can extend the capabilities of servers and responds to incoming requests
like how the web page is working.
Use client or we are searching something on Google.
So if you are searching something on Google, we send the request for that request.
The server which is located in on the internet like from you send some search on google something about
KAB and you want this is the request sent something some information for car.
In that response, the Google server will send the response for you.
It will send a respond for that request.
So basically.
So it works like that.
Response and respond requests.
So Sublet is a web component that deployed on the server to create dynamic web pages.
Now the dynamic web page means you can change everything inside that static web pages are something
like static.
You cannot change it.
These are some informative web pages like company wants to know that they're all information home,
then some about us.
And that's it for giving information in dynamic web pages like the event portal.
Or you can say my one website is dynamic, you can search there, they can add something on that.
So this is known as dynamic web pages.
So Servlet are basically used to create dynamic web pages.
And Servlet are web component that deployed on the server.
That's why we need server here.
Otherwise we can use only HTML and web browser and we can create but nothing like that.
We need one server, so we created one localhost.
As I told you, we downloaded the server to deploy our servlet.
So this is all about the servlet introduction.
It is just a basic.
So first, what we know that servlet is technology to create a web application.
Servlet is API that provides interfaces and classes.
So servlet works as both interfaces and classes interfaces to implement that UI user interface and everything.
And a class it serves as class to extend their capabilities like, you know, the, the Java thing,
if you want to implement logic in HTML, you cannot implement logically.
You cannot add something to numbers, you cannot proceed with some logical expressions there in HTML,
CSS, you need the back end.
So Java will provide this back end in industry java python as well as JavaScript used use servlet.
But servlet is very important because it deployed on the server end, not on the user end.
So that's because it will create dynamic pages.
So let us see how it will work to the diagram.
So this is the client.
This is our client.
Or we can say our machine.
This server.
So client will ask for a request or send request.
That's how the network works, basically.
So client, which means our system or we are using that system, we are searching our mobile phones,
anything on which is available on internet.
So client, if I am searching google.com on the internet, the google.com request sent to the server.
Know what it will be do.
Server doesn't have any application or something like that.
It will search everything.
There are some pre-built applications based on Java, JavaScript, anything.
So server will generate or take time to response.
So response is generated at runtime.
From that data.
Here is the data.
I can say this is the database and that response is sent to the client.
That's how the whole network works in servlet and request based on request and responses.
So now let's see our project based like what is the important thing in our project?
So for the frontend part is HTML, CSS and JSX is used.
I'm not using JS here for this project.
I'm going to use HTML and CSS.
So you should know the prior prior knowledge about html.
CSS is not very deep but very.
Basic knowledge about HTML and services.
You should know Java servlet or we can say Java programs basically.
What is the classes?
What is the methods?
What is how?
We can easily syntax between them then data handling in Java like data types in Java.
So second part is Java servlet, which is the main back end part, which contains logical methods and
everything.
So you can see these are both are different.
So we need one link between HTML and C is also the HTML and Java.
So what I can more what I will give the example like in the train.
There is an engine and there are some other compartments also in the train, like other cabins and everything.
So to connect engine and other that cabinets and everything, we need the link.
Similarly HTML and java for that particular image html page.
There should be a java like if html pesos.
Take two inputs from user number inputs and print ads.
There some result.
This is the basic application.
So I want to handle this.
So how the estimate will tell that this HTML file takes this number and it should give that to the that
java and it will take the addition and everything.
For that purpose we need a web XML.
So what I can say web XML is a control for low web control for flow for that web.
It's linking particular servlet to the specific web pages.
So servlet project contains three important parts each HTML, CSS or JS for frontend or anything related
to web deployment.
Second is Java solid programs, which are basically backends.
And also we required WebEx email or WebEx email is for like for.
What I can say.
Very simple.
As I told you.
It's for linking that particular part.
So these are about the Soviet important parts.
So let us see what is the thing in servlet before that I will want I want to truly go from for the web
application also.
So web application is application accessible from the web?
As you can see, there are several options on mobile.
You have WhatsApp, every thing.
So similarly on web, there are some applications created nowadays.
You are mostly seeing websites are basically web applications based on Java, servlet based on Java,
script, Python and everything like Amazon Web sites is itself a.
Oh.
Web application.
So web application composed of web components like servlet, JSP filters and other elements HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, everything.
JSP is basically Java servlet pages.
We are going to see further what is the difference between Java servlet programs and JSP programs?
So the components typically execute in web server and response the HTTP request.
So basically web application works like that.
Now what is the difference between CGI, the normal request and responses and our Java subject?
So let us discuss what is CGI.
CGI is basically.
Com one gateway interface.
So let me go with the project.
I will show the first part of our project, then I will tell you mostly about this CGI and everything.
So let us see how we can proceed with our project.
So as you can see, this is our project and I created index or HTML first like it's default created
there.
So that's it about index or html.
But what is over first pages I'm going to create is.
Is a log in pitch.
So if you know the syntax of HTML, you will understand this.
This is for just commenting out.
Log in html.
I will.
Or create there.
Then I'm going to use one default CSS, I can say, which I already created and I'm going to use that
CSS CSS file to link all the things.
So if you want, you can directly use some other CSS file to provide better environment, or I can say
better printing for your project.
So I as you can see, I am using I am using when going to use this this CSS file.
You can directly use this also.
It is available on internet and you can use it easily use this.
So this is basic CSS with some HTML, H1, common and everything.
So let us see how we can link this.
So this is in HTML in the title.
I'm going to give the login page.
You can do the similar things.
This is all about our index, not estimate.
I just use this default size.
So individual testimony is over front page icons here.
I used your total CSS to create CSS.
So I will tell you what is the significance of each tag here?
So this is for linking the our CSS total CSS.
I'm going to use only single case file to give the UI nice for our project.
Then this is linked to you.
The one there I'm using sense.
Open sense here.
Then this is more queue for the.
Please choose the below links to log in your account.
Something like that on the web pages.
That's scrolling.
But the important part here is I added two images.
Also remember for the admin PNG for admin image or admin logo just and for the part png for participant
image here.
So here what I created, I'm going to create to another HTML files.
This is all about front end, basically a log in HTML which is for admin login.
And that admin log login page will attach to another Java servlet to create that logic.
We will see in the further part also that but before that I created this admin login.
Similarly for participant logging.
So that's it about the index attachment.
So what you need to create, you need you are going to create two links there.
You can put links also there, but I am representing it as a button for simple scenario.
As you can see, I created button and I'm going to attach that.
It will be looking very good for us also.
So let us deploy this.
As I told you, for the deployment, simple steps.
You can right click there and you can.
Let's clean and build.
Now in the output below.
There you can see it is clean and doing all the stuff built successfully.
You can see now let's do this.
It will starting glass server.
So we need a glass server.
Without this we cannot deploy anything.
It will take time to glue with bootstrap and everything.
But.
So this is all about java solid and this is basic.
So always remember don't change indexed HTML to another file.
What it will be create it will create some anomaly in this dot a starting page.
So it will proceed with that further.
So now you can see it is creating and it is deploying over this web page on the server, as you can
see, successfully deployed.
Now, I will show you that Web page also.
So this is our Web page we just created.
So as you can see, it is localhost only event registration project.
And these images I am loading through the CSS by default on the internet available on the Internet,
you can change as you want.
And this is all about our admin log in and participant logging as this is very basic I can see and this
is indexed dot html I'm creating.
So as you can see login page you can see here and everything.
So what I am going to show you is when I created this admin login.
You can see status for zero four is not that is not fun because I haven't created any admin.
What I can say is HTML file or web pages are similarly for participants logging in for other videos.
I'm going to tell you how we can create admin, log in and each page and how we can attach to the Java
servlet.
So this is all about the beginning or setup of our part two for our setup and everything.
So this is the landing page, opening page of all of our portal.
So as I can told you about that, this is our web page or I can say web application here.